## distant supervision for relation extraction via piecewise convolutional neural network 2015
### abstract
+ 2 problems arise when using distant supervision for RE
> 1. heuristic alignment may result in wrong label problem
> 2. the noise generated from the feature extraction process can cause poor performance
+ propose PCNNs with multi-instance learning to address the above 2 problems
> for the 1st, treat distant supervision relation extrction **as a multi-instance learning problem**, taking the uncertainty of instance labels into account.

training set consist of many bags, the label of bags:known;the label of instance in bags:unknown.**design an objective function at the bag level**.

> for the 2nd, adopt convolutional architecture with **piecewise max pooling** to learning relevant features automatically.
### 1 introduction
+ **an assume** in distant supervion
> if 2 entities have a relationship in a known knowledge base, the all sentences that mention these 2 entities will express that relationship in some way.
+ 2 shrotcomings of distant supervision for RE task 
> wrong label problem. e.g. sentences which contain the 2 entities but not express the relationship are selected as a training instance.
> error propagation or accumulation. features are derived by NLP tools, but errors exist in NLP tools.<br>
  sentence length : >= 40 words; accuracy of syntactic parsing decreases with increasing sentence length.
 + solutions in this paper
 
 inspired by **Zeng et al.(2014)**: use a single max pooling operation to determine the most significant features.
 
 **shortcomings**：reduce the size of the hidden layers too rapidly and cannot capture the sructure information between 2 entities.
 
 devide the convolution results into 3 segments based on the positions of the 2 given entities; 
 
 design a piecewise max pooling layer instead of a single max pooling layer.
 
 ### 2　related work
 + supervised approches
 > considerd as a multi-class classification problem but suffer from a lack of labeled training data.
 Mints et al.(2009):adopted Freebase to perform distant suprevision
 
 Riedel et al.(2010):developed the relaxed distant supervision assumption for multi-instance learning.
 
 effective **but depends strongly on the quality of the designed features**.
 > feature extraction proccess
feature-based methods: need to select a suitable feature set when converting structured representations into feature vectors.

kernel-based methods:enable the use of a large set of features without extracting them explicitly.

convolutional tree kernel; the subsequence kernel; the dependency tree kernel

Zhang and Zhou(2006):incorporate multi-instance learning into traditional Backpropagation and Radial Basis Function(高斯径向基函数) networks; optimizing them by minimizing a sum-of-squares error function.
Radial Basis Function:
